.TH tapi\-tbdv5 1 2023-03-08 Darwin "TAPI TBD Version 5 Format Documentation"
.SH NAME
tbd \- Text Based Dynamic Library Stub

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
TAPI both generates and operates over text based stub files (.tbd).
These files are a textual, human readable representation of Mach\-O dynamic libraries (dylib) 
holding properties needed to resolve static link time dependencies including the same exported symbols
as the original dynamic library. Version 5 and onward are represented in JSON.
.RE

.SH REQUIRED KEYS 
.PP
tapi_tbd_version: <int>
.RS 4
Specifies the TBD file version. The only supported version is 5.
.RE
.PP
main_library: <dict>
.RS 4
Specifies the linkage properties of the main dylib in the TBD.
.RE
.PP
target_info: <array>
.RS 4
Specifies the supported targets of the dylib per target slice.
.RE
.PP
target: <architecture-platform>
.RS 4
Specify the architecture and platform identifier supported by the dylib.  
Those identifiers are mapped to the platform number that is specified by the
Mach-O format for the LC_BUILD_VERSION load command. It is also possible to
encode the platform with the platform number directly (for example: x86_64-maccatalyst).
.br
The following platform identifiers are supported: macos, maccatalyst, ios, ios-simulator,
tvos, tvos-simulator, watchos, watchos-simulator.
.RE
.PP
min_deployment: <version>
.RS 4
Specify the minimum deployment version to match the target for the dylib. This key is part of the 
LC_BUILD_VERSION load command. 
.RE
.PP
install_names: <array>
.RS 4
Specifies the install name of the dylib per target slice. This key is part of the
LC_ID_DYLIB load command in the Mach-O format. If \fItargets\fR section is omitted, the install name is the same 
for all targets recorded in \fItarget_info\fR.
.RE

.SH OPTIONAL KEYS 
.PP
flags: <array>
.RS 4
Specifies the flags of the dylib per target slice. If \fItargets\fR section is omitted,
the flags are the same for all targets recorded in \fItarget_info\fR.
.br
Valid flags are: flat_namespace and not_app_extension_safe.
flat_namespace is deprecated, but there are still some old binaries around on
macOS that depend on flat namespace linking. The default is two level
namespace linking. not_app_extension_safe indicates that the library is not safe
to be used in an Application Extension.
.RE
.PP
current_versions: <array>
.RS 4
Specifies the current version of the dylib per target slice. This key is part of the
LC_ID_DYLIB load command in the Mach-O format. If \fItargets\fR section is omitted,
the current version is the same for all targets recorded in \fItarget_info\fR.
The default value is 1.0 if not specified.
.RE
.PP
compatibility_versions: <array>
.RS 4
Specifies the compatibility version of the dylib per target slice. This key is part of the
LC_ID_DYLIB load command in the Mach-O format. If \fItargets\fR section is omitted,
the compatibility version is the same for all targets recorded in \fItarget_info\fR.
The default value is 1.0 if not specified.
.RE
.PP
swift_abi: <array>
.RS 4
Specifies the Swift ABI version the dylib was compiled with per target slice. 
The Swift ABI version is encoded in the Objective-C image section, which doesn't 
exist in stubbed dynamic library files. If \fItargets\fR section is omitted, the 
compatibility version is the same for all targets recorded in \fItarget_info\fR.
The default value is 0 if not specified.
.RE
.PP
parent_umbrellas: <array>
.RS 4
Specifies the parent umbrella of the dylib per target slice. This key is equivalent
to the LC_SUB_FRAMEWORK load command in the Mach-O format. If \fItargets\fR section is omitted,
the parent umbrella is the same for all targets recorded in \fItarget_info\fR.
.RE
.PP
reexported_libraries: <array>
.RS 4
Specifies the list of re-exported libraries of the dylib per target slice. This key is equivalent
to the LC_REEXPORT_DYLIB load command in the Mach-O format. If \fItargets\fR section is omitted,
the list of re-exported libraries are the same for all targets recorded in \fItarget_info\fR.
.RE
.PP
rpaths: <array>
.RS 4
Specifies the list of runpath search paths of the dylib per target slice. This key is equivalent
to the LC_RPATH load command in the Mach-O format. If \fItargets\fR section is omitted,
the list of runpath search paths are the same for all targets recorded in \fItarget_info\fR.
.RE
.PP
exported_symbols: <array>
.RS 4
Specifies the regular export symbol sections. If \fItargets\fR section is omitted,
the exports are the same for all targets recorded in \fItarget_info\fR.
.RE
.PP
reexported_symbols: <array>
.RS 4
Specifies the export symbol sections, but these symbols are not defined by the library itself. 
Instead, these symbols come from a different library. If \fItargets\fR section is omitted,
the re-exports are the same for all targets recorded in \fItarget_info\fR.
.RE
.PP
undefined_symbols: <array>
.RS 4
Specifies the undefined symbol sections and are only used for flat address space libraries. 
If \fItargets\fR section is omitted, the undefineds are the same for all targets 
recorded in \fItarget_info\fR.
.RE
.PP
text:  <dict>
.RS 4
Specifies the symbols defined in __TEXT segment of the library.
.RE
.PP
data:  <dict>
.RS 4
Specifies the symbols defined in __DATA segment of the library.
.RE
.PP
global:  <array>
.RS 4
Specifies the a list of exported, re-exported, or undefined symbol names.
.RE
.PP
weak:  <array>
.RS 4
Specifies the names of weak defined symbols for exported symbol sections or weak referenced symbols 
for undefined symbol sections. 
.RE
.PP
thread_local:  <array>
.RS 4
Specifies the symbol name of thread local exports. 
.RE
.PP
objc_class:  <array>
.RS 4
Specifies the list of exported, re-exported, or undefined Objective-C class names.
.RE
.PP
objc_eh_type:  <array>
.RS 4
Specifies the list of exported, re-exported or undefined Objective-C class exception type names.
.RE
.PP
objc_ivar:  <array>
.RS 4
Specifies the list of exported, re-exported or undefined Objective-C instance variable names.
.RE
.PP
libraries:  <dict>
.RS 4
Specifies the inlined tbd attributes for the \fImain_library\fR's reexported libraries. 
.RE


.SH Examples
.br
.RS 1
{
.br
"tapi_tbd_version": 5,
.br
"main_library": {
.br
  "target_info": [
.br
    {
      "target": "x86_64-macos",
      "min_deployment": "10.14"
    },
    {
      "target": "arm64-macos",
      "min_deployment": "10.14"
    },
    {
      "target": "arm64-maccatalyst",
      "min_deployment": "12.1"
    }
  ],
  "flags":[ 
    {
      "targets": ["x86_64-macos"],
      "attributes": ["flat_namespace"]
    }
  ], 
  "install_names":[
    {
      "name":"/System/Library/Frameworks/Foundation.framework/Foundation"
    }
  ],
  "current_versions":[ 
    {
      "version": "1.2"
    }
  ],
  "compatibility_versions":[
    {
      "version": "1.1"
    }
  ],
  "rpaths": [ 
    {
      "targets": ["x86_64-macos"],
      "paths": ["@executable_path/.../Frameworks"]
    }
  ],
  "parent_umbrellas": [
    {
      "umbrella": "System"
    }
  ],
  "allowable_clients": [
    {
        "clients": [
            "ClientA",
            "ClientB"
        ]
    }
  ],
  "reexported_libraries": [
    {
        "names": [
            "/u/l/l/libfoo.dylib",
            "/u/l/l/libbar.dylib"
        ]
    }
  ],
  "exported_symbols": [
    {
      "targets": ["x86_64-macos", "arm64-macos"],
      "data": { 
        "global": ["_global"],
        "objc_class": ["ClassA"],
        "weak": [],
        "thread_local": []
      },
      "text": { 
        "global": ["_func"],
            "weak": [],
            "thread_local": []
      }
    },
    {
      "targets": ["x86_64-macos"],
       "data": {
           "global": ["_globalVar"],
           "objc_class": ["ClassData"], 
           "objc_eh_type": ["ClassA", "ClassB"], 
           "objc_ivar": [ 
              "ClassA.ivar1", "ClassA.ivar2", "ClassC.ivar1" 
           ]
       },
       "text": {
           "global": ["_funcFoo"]
       }
    }
  ],
  "reexported_symbols": [
    {
      "targets": ["x86_64-macos","arm64-macos"],
      "data": {
          "global": ["_globalRe"],
          "objc_class": ["ClassRexport"]
      },
      "text": {
          "global": ["_funcA"]
      }
    }
  ],
  "undefined_symbols": [
    {
      "targets": ["x86_64-macos"],
       "data": {
          "global": ["_globalBind"],
            "weak": ["referenced_sym"]
       }
    }
  ]
 }
.br
}

.SH SEE ALSO
tapi(1), tapi\-tbdv4(1), ld(1), Mach\-O(5)
