.TH tapi\-tbdv4 1 2023-03-08 Darwin "TAPI TBD Version 4 Format Documentation"
.SH NAME
tbd \- Text Based Dynamic Library Stub

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
TAPI both generates and operates over text based stub files (.tbd). 
These files are a textual, human readable representation of Mach\-O dynamic libraries (dylib) 
holding properties needed to resolve static link time dependencies including the same exported symbols
as the original dynamic library. Format versions 1 - 4 were represented in YAML.
.RE

.SH REQUIRED KEYS 
.PP
tbd\-version: <int>
.RS 4
Specifies the TBD file version. The only supported version is 4.
.RE
.PP
install-name: <path>
.RS 4
Specifies the install name of the dylib. This key is part of the
LC_ID_DYLIB load command in the Mach-O format.
.RE
.PP
targets: <array>
.RS 4
Specifies the list of supported architecture/platform tuples. 
The following platform identifiers are supported: macos, maccatalyst, ios, ios-simulator,
tvos, tvos-simulator, watchos, watchos-simulator.
.RE

.SH OPTIONAL KEYS 
.PP
parent-umbrella: <section>
.RS 4
Specifies the parent umbrella of the dynamic library, if applicable. This key is equivalent to 
the LC_SUB_FRAMEWORK load command in the Mach-O format.
The \fIsection\fR contains an array of targets and its associated umbrella name.
.RE
.PP
allowable-clients: <section>
.RS 4
Specifies the allowable clients that are permitted to link against the dynamic library file. 
This key is equivalent to the LC_SUB_CLIENT load command in the Mach-O format.
The \fIsection\fR contains an array of targets and its associated list of client names.
.RE
.PP
reexported-libraries: <section>
.RS 4
Specifies a list of reexported libraries. This key is equivalent to 
the LC_REEXPORT_DYLIB load command in the Mach-O format.
The \fIsection\fR contains an array of targets and its associated list of
reexported library names.
.RE
.PP
flags: <array>
.RS 4
Specifies the flags of the dylib.
.br
Valid flags are: flat_namespace and not_app_extension_safe.
flat_namespace is deprecated, but there are still some old binaries around on
macOS that depend on flat namespace linking. The default is two level
namespace linking. not_app_extension_safe indicates that the library is not safe
to be used in an Application Extension.
.RE
.PP
current-version: <version>
.RS 4
Specifies the current version of the dynamic library file. 
The default value is 1.0 if not specified. This key is part of the 
LC_ID_DYLIB load command in the Mach-O format.
.RE
.PP
compatibility-version: <version>
.RS 4
Specifies the compatibility version of the dynamic library file. 
The default value is 1.0 if not specified. This key is part of the LC_ID_DYLIB 
load command in the Mach-O format.
.RE
.PP
swift-abi-version: <int>
.RS 4
Specifies the Swift ABI version the dynamic library file was compiled with. 
The default value is 0 if not specified. The Swift ABI version is encoded 
in the Objective-C image section.
.RE
.PP
exports: <section>
.RS 4
Specifies the regular exported symbol sections.
The \fIsection\fR contains an array of targets and its associated list of symbol names.
.RE
.PP
re-exports: <section>
.RS 4
Specifies the exported symbol sections not defined in the library itself, 
but coming from a different library instead. 
The \fIsection\fR contains an array of targets and its associated list of symbol names.
.RE
.PP
undefineds: <section>
.RS 4
Specifies the undefined symbol sections which are only used for flat address space libraries. 
The \fIsection\fR contains an array of targets and its associated list of symbol names.
.RE
.PP
objc-classes: <array>
.RS 4
Specifies the list of exported, re-exported, or undefined Objective-C class names.
.RE
.PP
objc-eh-types: <array>
.RS 4
Specifies the list of exported, re-exported, or undefined Objective-C class exception type names.
.RE
.PP
objc-ivars: <array>
.RS 4
Specifies the list of exported, re-exported, or undefined Objective-C instance variable names.
.RE
.PP
weak-symbols: <array>
.RS 4
Specifies the names of weak defined symbols for exported symbol sections or weak referenced symbols 
for undefined symbol sections. 
.RE
.PP
thread-local-symbols: <array>
.RS 4
Specifies the symbol name of thread local exports. 
.RE

.SH Examples
.br
.RS 1
--- !tapi-tbd  
.br
tbd-version: 4
.br
targets: [ arm64-macos, x86_64-macos, x86_64-maccatalyst ]
.br
flags: [ flat_namespace ]
.br
install-name: /usr/lib/libc.dylib
.br
current-version: 1.2.3
.br
compatibility-version: 1.1
.br
swift-abi-version: 5
.br
parent-umbrella:
.br
.RS 1
  - targets: [ arm64-macos, x86_64-macos, x86_64-maccatalyst ]
    umbrella: System
.RE
allowable-clients:
.RS 1
  - targets: [ arm64-macos, x86_64-macos, x86_64-maccatalyst ]
    clients: [ ClientA, ClientB ]
.RE
reexported-libraries:
.RS 1
  - targets: [ x86_64-macos, x86_64-maccatalyst]
    library: [ /System/Library/Frameworks/Foo.framework/Foo ]
  - targets: [ arm64-macos]
    library: [ /System/Library/Frameworks/Bar.framework/Bar ]
.RE
exports:
.RS 1
  - targets: [ x86_64-macos ]
    symbols: [ _symA ]
    objc-classes: []
    objc-eh-types: []
    objc-ivars: []
    weak-symbols: []
    thread-local-symbols: []
  - targets: [ x86_64-maccatalyst ]
    symbols: [ _symB ]
  - targets: [ x86_64-macos, x86_64-maccatalyst ]
    symbols: [ _symAB ]
.RE
re-exports:
.RS 1
  - targets: [ arm64-macos ]
    symbols: [ _symC ]
    objc-classes: []
    objc-eh-types: []
    objc-ivars: []
    weak-symbols: []
    thread-local-symbols: []
.RE
undefineds:
.RS 1
  - targets: [ arm64-macos ]
    symbols: [ _symD ]
    objc-classes: []
    objc-eh-types: []
    objc-ivars: []
    weak-symbols: []
    thread-local-symbols: []
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
tapi(1), tapi\-tbdv5(1), ld(1), Mach\-O(5)
